And what about duplicates of Aldine?
I mean, would that... there'd be so many different titles, but you might have two... Well, with these ancient books, it's difficult to say what is a duplicate, because most of them have, for instance, notations and, you know, and other signs, or even handwriting.
The owners have written
made comments.
So, in fact, they are not really duplicates.
In that case, they are all originals.
I think it's hard to argue that any incurable is a duplicate.
Yes, not really, no.
But also because of these collections sometimes were kept as the... for philological reasons.
When we get a collection, an entire library,
from somewhere else, then we do not disperse this.
It's not a, it's left as a library, especially if it's an old, an ancient library, a historical library, consisting of many hundreds of thousands of books.
Then it's not dismantled.
So that's why you have, like, the Barberini collection, lots of them in the cagey.
That's right.
The Barberini, the Rossiana, the Mai, but also the De Luca.
um, many other modern, more modern, uh, collections.
So, those are always left intact, you would know?
They're left intact, yes.
So, even if they are dupictures, they are not, uh, they cannot be, um... The accession?
The accession, yes.
Oh, that's fascinating.
That's unusual.
My mother wasn't really like that.
I wanted the license to give him a manuscript from another collection.
That's why Dr. Berg left.
There could be no deaccession of any of the original books in the collection because he was a trustee.
the library, and he didn't appear that his chap wanted a manuscript or something.
In return?
Yeah, and it didn't like that.
I really wanted his stuff to fall and stay empty.
The history and the integrity.
And the integrity, yes.
Ah, yes.
Oh, that was good.
Yeah, I'll do it.
Can I hold this next one?
Thank you, Mom.
You can hold this.
Oh, I'm back.
Here we go.
I hope you will be able to use the computer.
Perhaps it's actually better for the consideration of the book that you can have a computer that you don't risk that somebody starts writing over with a pen on top of the books.
especially if they can use their computer terminals, then we don't have to try to set up too many terminals for users, because they could be using
their PC as a library catalog and have access through their PC to internet, their email.
How many of you are talking about the prefects?
Yes, probably.
Like Stickler, I suppose.
Stickler, yes.
There's also a cardinal who's in charge of the prefects.
That is interesting.
The cardinal's in charge of the prefects.
Do you want to explain the difference between the cardinal who is like the title as opposed to the prefect?
The prefect is the library director.
The cardinal is a sort of protector of the library with the Holy See, so he's responsible for the library in general, the library and the archives as well.
The current cardinal is Poggi, Luigi Poggi.
He was nuncio,
How do you spell his last name?
Poggi, P-O, W-G-I, Luigi, first name.
Is he a scholar in a particular field, like the prefect?
No, he doesn't need to be a scholar unless he's a vicar who was former prefect and then
was made up and was appointed cardinal other library other librarian cardinals were came from they don't need to be librarian actually but they don't need to be library special scholars it's just the title
but presumably they are, I mean, all cardinals obviously have been scholars to become a cardinal, but presumably they might have a special interest in history or something.
Yeah, but not necessarily in paleography or medieval studies.
But matters, for instance, like policy, to determine whether or not you will embark on a major digitization project.
That would be developed more by the prefect.
The prefect, yes.
The administration of the library, the management of the library, all the decisions that had to be taken on the library, for instance the staff or the projects, they would all be the prefect's responsibility.
Of course he would have to discuss this with the cardinal, because then the cardinal would present the project to the
to the Secretariat of State or to the Pope.
But his sort of interface between the Secretariat of State and the Holy See and the Vatican.
So it's earned the Vatican Lightroom.
Are these portraits cut also in the past?
Yes, in the past.
In Greece.
Actually, I'm now realizing that the very left
Yeah, well in times the hall outside the walls, they say that when they get to the, they have all the portraits of the various popes, and when they, there is no space that is the end of the world, do they say.
Oh my goodness.
Anyway.
I'll squeeze him in.
Father Farina is a special student.
Farina, he was dean at a university, Alasian University.
But his personal academic interest?
Yes, academic interest in methodology, research methodology, and
Canon law.
What is the study of pathology?
Pathology, the fathers of the church, they are the founders of, if you want, yeah, those who wrote about theological matters in the Middle Ages, for instance, Ambrosius, Augustine.
So this is from the 2nd, 3rd century A.D.
till the 8th, 10th.
I understand there's quite a major St.
Augustine bibliographical project going on.
I wonder if you could tell us something briefly about that.
Is it going on here, or are there texts?
St.
Augustine?
Oh, no, Thomas Aquinas.
Oh, Thomas Aquinas, yes.
No, it's not going on here.
That is Father Boozer, who's
Where was my mind?
I'm sorry.
I'm okay.
It begins with an A, sort of.
No, I mean lots of these projects, so it could have been, I mean, the Index to Mysticus.
Isn't this a project that's supposed to take many generations to complete for many, many years?
Yes, I suppose so, but I have very little information.
It's not going on here.
We're not involved with that project at all.
Are there any bibliographic projects of similar scale that are going on here, of many years?
Well, the catalog of manuscripts and their reproduction in machine-readable form will certainly take many years.
Is there a danger, I mean, when you talk about books, I mean, when you do something like scanning, is there a danger that what you put it on now in three years will, or five years will?
We're obsolete.
We'll be obsolete.
How do you prepare for that?
Well, we try and, first of all, we try to comply with standards.
So those which are standards de facto of the jure, we stick to those.
So for instance, we are using map format as for description of books or manuscripts as well, documents anyway, bibliographic documents.
As regards images, we try and make as many
continuous backups as possible in various forms.
This is a problem that will certainly need to be investigated before we go removed from the pilot project to the... I suppose it's actually not that much different from the manuscript to the typewriter to the printed... No, with the exception that
Of course, printed material is always immediate, yes.
You don't need any kind of interface with technology like CDs or archival electronic files.
You need a computer.
And all your data, say for instance, on disks which are 5-inch,
I asked the question for her, because the first computer I had, of course, and then you'd have to read how you keep, and now everything keeps moving so fast.
The concern of what they call migration of data is not so critical here, because they're not deaccessioning any of the things that they're scanning.
But this is a concern that some institutions in the United States and elsewhere, where they are scanning things,
and then getting rid of the original materials that they've scanned and relying on faith that the material will migrate from operating system to operating system.
And that's a big gamble, isn't it?
Indeed, yes.
I think that we now have, here we have a laboratory preservation specialist, and so far his responsibility was
conservation of documents, primary documents, manuscripts, or other things.
I suppose now one new role will be the preservation of electronic documents separate from primary documents.
There's a task force that has just been established at the Library of Congress charged with precisely that mandate to come up with ways to safeguard
It was just a case decided in Washington where the historians, a group of historians, sued the government, which had been giving permission to various bureaucracies to destroy electronic material without any hard copies and without going through any kind of a... So the judge told them they couldn't do that.
But you have to have safeguards.
And as you know, there is no guarantee that this material... We know paper can last hundreds of years.
We don't know how long...
What did that man tell us about the bibliotech now?
You know, it degrades.
The material absolutely degrades over a period of time.
Yeah, so I think we should, we certainly should create this post for preservation of the material.
The person in charge, just for that.
Just for that, yes.
Study all the dangers
I suppose I can be destroyed by heat.
You must sort of plan for regular migrations or backwards.
It implies organizational changes in the structure of the hybrid.
I've got the camera, I'm sorry.
I'm just saying nothing for the other 13.
What is the significance of the statue, as we come in, of the Greek statue?
Oh, yeah, that's... The statue, Mr. Howard, there, was an archaeological find.
The statue, in fact, is a...
a replica of the Hellenistic period, but the throne is the original.
It's an old Greek, part of an old Greek statue, and on the side you will see there is a sort of calendar.
Oh, is that a calendar?
That's a calendar, yes.
And what?
Hippolytus?
He was a philosopher.
Beautiful.
So that was like a calendar, isn't it?
Yes.
That's why it was so repetitious.
And the Tower of the Wind, that used to be the Astronomic Observatory.
The Gregorian calendar was all the studies
which led to the definition of the Gregorian calendar were carried out up there.
And it used to be the department where Queen Christine of Sweden was.
Up there?
Yes, up there, yes.
Up, up the Tower of the Four Winds, yes.
There was the Alessandra Library, which is in the Vatican.
Yes, it's here in the Vatican.
That's the secret archives over there, and there are stacks.
And here, underground, the stacks, the manuscripts, stacks.
The manuscripts are kept in controlled conditions, environmental conditions, so you see the outlets of people.
of the air conditioning what is the name of this area this is called the the library courtyard it was the intermediate plateau so the upper plateau up there then this and that is the cortile della pigna today corresponds to the cortile della pigna then the library courtyard and the belvedere courtyard and
There was a ray up there, so you could overlook the lower, the lower plateau.
That was the Belvedere, a nice view, was from up there.
And the manuscripts are down below there?
Down below here, yes.
It is quite appropriate that Queen Christina lived really, literally, with the book, didn't she?
Yes, but not very long, just a few days or a few weeks.
A few days?
Yes, a few weeks.
But it was appropriate, yes.
And what do you call those rooms again?
Does it have a name where she stays?
No, that is, the building is called the Tower of the Wind.
It's the tallest building of the Vatican, with the exception, of course, of the domes.
And the Sistine reading room was upstairs, so I was taken upstairs.
But now let me show you something which is... Thank you.
And then Pius VII, that was during the Holyoke years,
built this building on top which is the Museo Chiaramonti and the fountain just became a warehouse.
And then in the 80s, they decided to transform it into a bar, and it's now a bar.
So, what are you having?
Coffee.
That's, I think, a lunch.
Maybe a fruit juice.
Fruit juice.
Anything to eat?
Why don't you put your chip recorder around?
Too many.
Keeps us fit.
Yes.
Well...
Three, three or four, sorry, four.
The second floor, the periodicals, reading rooms, the first floor, the manuscript and printed material reading room, the second floor, and the 15th chapel, the 16th library, and the museum of the third floor.
This room of the ancient library.
And this furniture here, this is the original furniture of the Library of Sixtus IV, so 1425, 1486.
Again, other briefcase and cardinals of this library.
And this was referenced material because the books were kept inside.
People came and certain things were
And this was the reading room.
Like the Urbino.
Yes, like the Urbino.
This room, middle 14th, 15th century.
er, sorry, 16th century, middle 16th century.
This is the corridor.
The readers came from the corridor here at the back, came to this, this was the vestibolo, where the reference was in on the steps, and then the window was here.
It's so wonderful, there are a lot of books in the hand.
Oh, is there any tradition or not?
Yes.
No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no
So, this is the, this used to be the reading room, the library reading room.
All of the frescoes on the wall, on the history of the libraries, the various libraries, Babylon, and all the libraries in the past.
and all the various councils on the bible and the book, the holy book and here the creators originated in various alphabets Are these reproduced in a book that can be purchased?
I suppose so, yes, yes
It's the history of libraries.
History of libraries, yes.
Are they burning?
Are they in the, like, Nardini book?
I don't know.
Yes, they should be.
Nardini book.
They're in the book.
This was 6th of the 5th.
And 6th of the 5th is the Pope who created this library, this 15th room.
And who, that's the Pope that...
set up the obelisk, right?
Yes, the obelisk.
I couldn't remember which pope it was, but then it made it.
Hebrew.
So Vatican, this was Vaticani Latini, the Vatican Latin Maniscuits, from number 2171 to number 2288.
and here you will find from number 2289 two numbers 2289 to 2327 and so forth so these were the stacks these were the stacks yes oh under
until 189.
These are all the fountains of the very chapter.
They were rather interesting that they looked rather like chinoiserie, you know, rather than, I don't know, but maybe I'm just not quite knowledgeable about the antique furniture.
Well, they were not the original ones, they were...
Most of them were all along the gallery.
These little reading desks?
These, maybe?
Which ones?
Yes.
Well, they look far away.
All of them were preserved.
Some of these are part of the collection of... These were gifts presented to the folks.
So you can see, for instance, this one, Gifts of Nathanae.
Just what you wanted.
Here it is.
I love these pictures over here.
Yes, that's beautiful.
That one, you see, that is the Sibylla.
Torquinius, King Torquinius, who orders to throw the books, burn all the books, until he gets to the very last one, and he asks the Sibylla witch to know the story and what was expected Roe, and she said that it was the books that he had destroyed.
I don't know this story.
This is her, yes.
The Sibyl.
The Sibyl, yes, the Sibyl.
He destroyed all the books?
The books, yes.
No way.
Was he just anti-intellectual?
This is in the Etruscan?
Yes, in the Etruscan, because it was the... Yes, the... But it's interesting, because in these press codes, we also have... For instance, there you see the art of...
of copying manuscripts, you see.
Then we present the Biblioteca Ierosolimitana, the Jerusalem Library.
But of course it's not interesting for the library itself, because it's just a, you know, it's a reproduction of a Renaissance library.
You see all the copyists which are doing
and the way they bind their manuscripts and how they keep them on the stalls.
It's quite interesting for the history of book and book binding.
It's quite interesting to see that it's written in the manuscript.
It really is.
Why don't I flip it now so you don't want to see?
Oh, sure.
And you want to hold this?
I can hold that.
This is at the end of what you want.
You might be able to find it all.
Thank you.
I think I already have them.
This is the museum.
Again, part of the stats, these are all the stats until
The end of last century.
These are other gifts, right?
These are.
Yes.
Yes, there.
And these were folks from the Capitol Hill?
Yes.
Now we come to the collection of objects of art.
By the way, here you have a view over the garden, the Vatican garden.
That's beautiful.
Well, that is the Academia Science Academy.
Typical Science Academy.
The building was built by the famous Italian artesians.
Not Fontana, no.
No, not Fontana.
It's beautiful inside, isn't it?
The first half of the 15th century.
The men and women.
Italy is, where is it?
There.
That's where?
Yes, because this is Bologna.
Bologna.
There you see Rome is there.
But there is Manfredonia in Puglia, which is a very small town.
And, yeah.
So this would have been not used for them to make engravings, it was the way it was, in other words, six months?
Yes.
I wouldn't have done them.
Brass rubbing.
No, no, no, no.
This is a map.
This is the original.
It's a map of windows facing east.
Africa.
This is Africa.
It's not oriented to the true north.
No, it's the south.
North is here.
Yes.
And here this is...
anglia that's england and that is the adrian's walls scotland and england and ireland is just there i've never seen anything like that before in granada spain valencia barcelona barcelona toletum saragossa
And these are the Pyrenees.
This is France.
Torosa, Burgundia.
And here you have Camelorum, Nubia, Alexandria, and this is the river Nile.
It's not bad considering... Do you know the world map has to be...
It's a little bit alive, isn't it?
Here's a variety of items from the land of the world.
Bells.
Blue.
Slow swans.
Anything.
Now this is the museum of profane ice.
So these are all the finds from the cataclylds.
The cataclylds?
Yes.
Nice.
Look at that.
Pottery.
How beautiful.
Isn't that funny?
They belong to the library because they belong to the book before the book is suggested that they are.
Yes, yes.
The library.
The papyrus, the papyrus collection.
Oh, my goodness.
The papyri room.
This is the papyri room.
These are replicas, they're not the original.
The most important collection of medieval papyri in Latin?
As you see here, papyri are codices, but they were shown as an exhibition, so as objects in a museum, you see, because it was not.
It's not so clear the distinction between a museum and a library.
It's kind of a tradition style, you see?
This depiction of angels with the pelicans.
These are frescoes.
From Ostia.
That's very beautiful.
Very beautiful.
Look at the
She's beautiful.
Yeah, very beautiful.
I wanted to show you a room of frescoes.
I have no idea that these actually belong to the library.
Of course, it's clear when you come to the museum that this belongs to the library, as you know.
It's the Nancy Aldo Grandini, a well-known fresco, but it's an exhibition in Paris.
You just came from Paris, so... Did you come from Paris?
I've not worked in Fresco two months ago.
Well, anyway, it's there.
It's there.
It's very well done.
This is the... Oh, marriage.
Yeah, the marriage, yes.
The bride.
And the sax hunter.
And the singer.
That is beautiful.
And these are the gold.
Gold glass.
This is called gold glass.
Used to be when...
when people were dead before in Beringham, they drank together, then they smashed the glass, and then they put this on the fresh, they put it as a souvenir in the tomb.
This is how it felt.
Do you see this?
This is the base of the glass.
It's a thin layer of gold, yeah.
It's a weight for gold in two layers of glass.
You can't see anything like that before.
Yeah, what was the signature?
This one's like a toast to the... Yeah, a toast to the afterlife, please.
Yes, to the afterlife, yes.
In fact, some of these is either like vita ti be, life be with you.
So it's like a... Yes, I'm sorry.
Or it could be in Greek, like they say, and here is a... So this means that life, that we can drink together many times.
And where did you recover these?
Catacombs.
Yes, catacombs.
This is beautiful, look, you see colour.
It's all gold, it's not colours, there's no colour, it's just the way
the glass is treated.
And this for instance, the very realistic, for instance, in this case, these are the portraits of the dead.
All people who did not afford to have this,
These smaller ones, which were sort of so very common.
They're almost three-dimensional in a way, aren't they?
Yes, they are.
To think that this leads to these three are the most beautiful ones.
And what do you call them once?
Gold glass.
And you shattered the glass and it was the base, the heavy part of the bottom.
This one looks like... So this would have been, oh yeah, like the base.
The base of the glass, they drank, they smashed the glass, and then they put this... Isn't that interesting because in like Jewish or Greek weddings they do that, you know, they smash the glass.
Because by smashing the glass, in other words, something is finished.
It's like finished.
It's a souvenir that you won't have it again.
You will not marry again.
Just by now let me do it, I guess.
Yes.
The view of the book.
The mosaics from Bastia.
I'll take the step on it.
It almost looks like a tiger, aren't you?
Ryan, uh, Dean.
I never thought about it until you waited it out.
Were these originally also pieces for books, or have they always been?
No, these were display cases.
Display cases.
And how would you know, except if it became fair with you, that this was the beginning of the library?
Because coming from the Sistine... Sure.
That's true.
Thank you.
I didn't know to pay attention.
This is how people know.
This is the library court, Belvedere courtyard, and the fine town court.
There are three platters.
This is the bar here, and this is the library, the Sistine room.
And now we are at this room.
We're here.
The sectors of the museum circuit in the care of the Vatican and Apollos Library.
Hey, this is not on.
It's not on.
I'm sorry.
Oh, it's off, I think, this way.
Well, I don't know where I'm recording.